[Music]
uh
yeah so we have a brand new type of
lesson for you guys today andrea and i
are actually
together here in person and it's the
first video that we're doing together
physically so what um
so we thought this would actually be the
perfect opportunity
to talk about some differences in our
accents because
where are you from andrea so i'm from
london i was born in the uk
and i'm from colorado in the united
states as many of you may already know
and so we wanted to talk about some
words that are different
in american and british english so
this will help you a lot if you are
learning one accent and you want to
transition to another
maybe you want to travel and you want to
know what words
people from that other country might not
understand yeah it's just really useful
because
also if you watch lots of different tv
series and
movies some of our words are different
and you might not know which one is
british english
or american english so it's really
useful to know exactly
and before we get in to start talking
about these different words and stuff
i wanted to let you know that if you're
new here every week we make fun new
lessons like this one
so that you can understand fast speaking
natives like andrea and i
without getting lost without missing the
jokes and without subtitles
so if that sounds like something that
you would like to be able to do it's
really simple just hit that subscribe
button and the bell below so you don't
miss any of our new lessons
so our first word these are
chips of course no ethan i'm really
sorry those are not chips
so what are chips for you so chips are
something that's hot
that you would have like with a burger
or something
so these in british english
are crisps because they are crunchy and
they come in a packet
but the hot things they're called french
fries well
yeah i guess they are and i guess they
are for us as well
like if you're going to certain fast
food restaurants
they are french fries but we still call
them chips
in the uk all right so you better not
get confused if you want them cold
in the usa chips if you want them hot in
the uk
say chips exactly uh chips please
a few more
just a few more
okay girls we are ready for scrabble
i'll grab some snacks oh potato chips
please
oh so i can hear about how much you hate
yourself all night
and how about what would you call these
so these are biscuits but biscuits are
not sweet yes they are
why what are you talking about those are
cookies of course
see cookies for us we have cookies as
well but cookies
are like a chocolate chip cookie or
something but there's lots of different
types of biscuits
so generally in the uk you would say
that these types of sweet hard what
you'd say cookies
or biscuits as you said we would call
those cookies
biscuits are actually something
different in the u.s and i think they
probably
don't exist in the uk but it's actually
something savory
we might have it at breakfast with gravy
on top of it
which i think is another thing that can
be different it's like a white sauce
with bacon
and it's a really delicious breakfast if
you're ever in the us and you want to
try something really typical
you can get biscuits and gravy that
sounds like a really heavy
breakfast it is american breakfasts are
very heavy but british breakfasts are
too
right if you have like a full english
breakfast
and just let you guys know if you want a
really natural and
fun way to learn the vocabulary that
americans really use in our speech
that i would highly recommend to you our
fluent with friends course where you
will learn
over 48 weeks with the first two seasons
of friends the tv series
yeah and this is a great way to learn
even if you want to learn british
english
i mean throughout the series there are
lots of british characters
which is great good and bad exactly and
yeah we've taken a look at that actually
in some other lessons
but even as someone who is from britain
like i've learned so much from watching
the show as well
i think that's probably where i have
more of my knowledge of american english
words and pronunciation and everything
is from watching friends
and they even have done some studies
that show how it kind of like has
affected and transformed some words in
british english
yeah because we were talking well we
talk all the time about the way that we
pronounce
words but i've even sometimes sometimes
i use
the american t which sounds more like a
d
and i never used to do that before so it
really has made an impact on my own
speech as well that's true
and if you want to try that course out
for free we have a
three-part masterclass so you'll have a
lot of fun learning with that
and you can learn more and sign up by
clicking up at the top or down in the
description below
so we have some different vegetables as
well what would you call
that kind of like long green one that
you
not a cucumber but it's one that you
would cook up yeah we would call this a
courgette
courgette it sounds very french we would
call it a zucchini
yeah so yeah i guess we
some of these types of vegetables we
kind of take the
french word for it because it does sound
very french all right
and zucchini would you say that's more
italian that sounds more italian doesn't
it
i wonder why we got the italian and you
got the french yeah
it's really interesting we need to look
into that and find out why
if we have any italian or french fans
out there that want to
offer some clarification here and
there's another one
that i think the american name is
actually really weird because
who knows what it has to do with this
it's called an eggplant it looks nothing
like an egg maybe someone thought it did
yeah
and it doesn't really taste like an egg
what would you call that we call that
aubergine
which again is french isn't it yeah so
if you're in the u.s and maybe you know
the word aubergine
sounds like a lot of latin languages uh
and
you want that kind of vegetable and or
you see it on the menu an eggplant you
can know that that's not actually
anything to do with eggs
so if you actually if i went to america
and i asked for
aubergine do you think people would
understand what i was saying no i don't
think so i think i just learned that
from being around british people so
definitely if you're in
the us and you're saying aubergine i
don't think or a courgette i think
they're going to think that you're
not a native english speaker yeah
they'll be really confused wouldn't they
so we have one more thing having to do
with
food kind of with food if you go to a
candy shop
does this exist in the in the uk a candy
shop it does
but we call it a sweet shop so what do
you buy at a sweet shop
so at a sweet shop you buy all those
kind of sugary sweets the ones that can
be
like fizzy cola bottles milk bottles
uh you know gummies yeah you would call
them gummies
we don't really say gummies oh really
yeah
i said it earlier to you because when i
was thinking about it i wanted
to make sure like we were clear on what
we were talking about
but we call gummy bears gummy bears
um but yeah we just call them sweets
it's like haribo and things of the story
right
exactly so we call that candy
if you go to a candy shop that's also
the kind of things that you would find
the gummy bears and
anything that's kind of like uh hard or
chewy or different things like that
usually with a lot of different colors
uh but for us
sweets i would generally think of like
anything that's sweet so i could also
think like cakes
pastries so if you say a sweet shop i
might even think it's like a bakery
maybe
ah no it wouldn't be but i kind of find
that a little bit confusing because
what would you then call chocolate you
call chocolate candy as well don't you
not really i think it could definitely
be associated like in a candy store
you'll find chocolate
and the pronunciation there is quite
different as well because we say
chocolate
and you say chocolate so it's like a bit
of a shorter
eye sound there right yeah and
yeah so chocolate you might think about
that though because we have
candy bars right that's what i'm
thinking of yeah
because i would say i want some
chocolate or a chocolate bar
but you would call it a candy cane candy
bar but a candy bar because we have
chocolate bars as well but chocolate
bars
would be like if it's just pure
chocolate a candy bar
is when it has like different candy bits
inside of it like
or maybe different things like pretzels
toffee things like that that makes sense
you've kind of made it a bit clearer for
me now because that's kind of one that
i've even found confusing
as well sometimes so we are covering a
ton of vocabulary in this lesson already
uh so if you are like me and it's kind
of difficult
for you to remember a bunch of words
there's a lot of great tools out there
and techniques
that can help you a lot and actually on
our other channel on our real life
english channel
i just recently taught a lesson all
about how
you can better memorize vocabulary and
these things have helped me a lot in
learning six different languages
it's a really great lesson and there's
so many tips there on how you can
memorize vocabulary so it's
really it goes really well with today's
lesson as well because we've taught you
a lot of new vocabulary
exactly so be sure to head over there
after you finish this lesson and
now we'll continue with a few more words
next we're going to move on from food
we'll talk about clothing i think we
have a lot of different a lot of uh
differences with clothing as well there
are loads so
for example if i go to the uk and i want
to buy some green pants
where are they going to take me
you want underwear no i want pants of
course
long pants but those are called trousers
trousers that's that's like one of the
words that definitely i think americans
didn't know but it just sounds like very
it sounds very british or like very old
english or something like that to us
yeah this is actually quite funny
because i was speaking to my sister the
other day and she was living
in colorado actually for like six years
and my nephew because he was born there
and grew up there a lot of the words
that he speaks are american english
words so he still says
pants as in trousers that we would say
in britain
and my sister was saying oh i'm going to
start teaching him some of the
british words now so that he understands
when i'm saying
certain words as well so yeah
for us we say trousers you don't say
this at all do you no
we don't say that at all we just say
pants and the other thing would be
underwear or underpants
yeah we still say underwear but pants
generally means um your underwear
and usually more men's underwear because
the female underwear
are called knickers actually i don't
know if you knew that's a very british
word as well
yeah i woke up wearing somebody else's
trousers
no pants i've got normal memories
i don't believe this son of a pitch well
i call 9-1-1
what oh no my phone is in my other fence
okay so talking about pants so if you
call
pants underwear then what would
sweatpants be
so these in the uk we would call
tracksuit bottoms
so it's quite long so not everyone says
we would shorten it to say trackies
trackies yeah
so you have uh sweatpants and then you
might have like a sweatshirt in the u.s
yeah we call a sweatshirt a jumper a
jumper
and why do you know what that comes from
i
don't actually no i'm not sure but i
know that
quite a european way of saying it would
be pull over have you heard that as well
i have heard that
yeah but i'm not sure a sweatshirt
so a sweatshirt is a jumper right but
then you also have
sweater yeah we have a sweater a
sweatshirt is more like the one that
doesn't have any hood or anything like
around it
and then like a sweater is more like
what your grandmother might knit for you
for christmas
yeah so that's a jumper that's a jumper
so sweatshirt would that be like a
track shirt or something like that the
whole thing we call it a track suit
okay but people don't tend to use this
word that much anymore this was more
like the 90s kind of
shell tracksuits i don't know if you
remember those but the ones with the
hood we just call them hoodies a hoodie
yeah that's for us as well
but if it's without a hood that might be
a sweatshirt
[Music]
what are you jumping back
uh chandler was just saying how
beautiful your sweater is oh thank you
chandler i just bought it
oh yes well it's very beautiful and it's
cream-colored and tight and
i don't mean ty i mean it's not too
tight not that i was looking at
what's the matter with him so the next
one
we have is what would you call
shoes basically the time that you might
wear because they're quite comfortable
every day or maybe for sports yeah
we would call these trainers so we
actually have several names in the u.s
but
sneakers or maybe tennis shoes
so our tennis shoes those like white
kind of lace-up ones
yeah i think we kind of like use them as
a general term for all of them but i
think like the most traditional ones
and we even shorten it to like tennies
oh okay
that's interesting yeah we don't have
these words in britain
i think people will understand you if
you say them but we just say trainers
for all these kinds of shoes that you
use for sports
okay like people might take tennis shoes
too literally in the uk
right yeah like shoes for actual tennis
they might send you to like a tennis
shop
exactly that's a bit confusing yeah so
be sure
maybe don't use that one maybe use
sneakers if you're
in the uk and you forget the word for
the british word trainers
yeah definitely if you say sneakers
people will understand
what you mean of course i had no idea
how he'd actually get into a club but i
wasn't taking any chances
and wore my smartest shoes something
simon didn't do
why are you wearing trainers site
because they look good i specifically
said no trainers not if you want to get
into clubs
but i just don't want to run i didn't
bring my sneakers or my clothes
you're going to have to run or you're
going to be in a lot of trouble
all right so we talked about pants
we talked about underwear women
sometimes wear
something as well that's kind of like
would go under their dress
or whatever what would you call that so
we call these tights
so for me tights are kind of like in
shakespeare like what the men would wear
okay i see what you mean yeah i guess
i don't know why they're called tights i
guess because they are quite
tight-fitting
when you're wearing them and they're
very stretchy i suppose they're kind of
like the ones that
men would have worn during during
shakespeare's time
they're probably a bit thicker right i
imagine but women's tights obviously you
can get them
quite sheer you can get really thick
ones like for winter and they keep you
warm and everything as well
but you don't have this word for this
particular
type of clothing do you no we would call
this pantyhose
pantyhose yeah so the pronunciation
there is even different because
i would say that in t i would drop the t
so i say pantyhose
but you say the t hose yeah or
um would i say yeah just without
with the glottal t i'm thinking what it
would sound like pantyhose you'd still
say that
the h sound yeah we'd say pantyhose but
yeah i think people might understand
what you're saying but it is not a
british word at all
it's a really silly sounding word in in
english in american english i mean
pantyhose
i guess is it because you wear it again
like underneath some clothing
and you also call uh we'll call like
women's underwears you said knickers
we'll call them panties
and then hose is it i'm not sure what
that comes from like i think of like a
hose that you like garden with right
but maybe because that like tube shape
right i guess
so do you call that a hose pipe
no what's the hose pipe so a hose pipe
is this one that you have in the garden
that you use to water your
garden and your grass and everything you
just call that a hose oh okay
yeah we can call it a hose for short as
well but the full word is a hose pipe
hose pipe i've never heard that it's a
new one for me
so the last one we had actually it's not
so much clothes but it's kind of like
fashion
right so if you you don't have them but
like if you maybe decide to change your
look and you went to your
salon you might ask them to leave you
some hair here what do you call that
just very quickly i would go to the
salon not the salon
yeah so there's a difference there as
well we call it also like a beauty
parlor
yeah yeah we don't say beauty parlor so
much we'd say the
beautician the beautiful thing but
that's like nails and
such as well right yeah hairdresser to
go
to get what we would call a fringe a
friend so when you have this
nice cut i would say i think that's like
very strange because
there's like it's like a block of hair i
guess but there's like all these
individual hairs we call it bangs
because it's plural you know it's like
all of the hairs that go in the front
yeah so if if i were to say fringe
what do you think of a fringe that
i mean that is a word but i think like
you're on the fringe of something like
it's kind of like the edge
of something okay because there is also
like in
in some clothing and with accessories
like with some
bags for example handbags there's a type
of fringe as well
like i guess it's a bit western you're
right
yeah or like those dresses that have
like the little yeah
like beads and things like that and it
looks like a fringe and it's the same
word bangs where does that word come
from i don't know it sounds like a gun
doesn't it like bang bang
yeah i have no idea and
you know like in my mind a fringe
because i've grown up with that word
it's like one thing
because it's all in the same area of
your
face but bangs like you said it's plural
yeah we think of like all the hairs but
you can't just say like one well i guess
you could say like one bang
it's not so common to hear that though
you know like i had like a bang fall out
or something like that
oh really okay it's interesting
two completely different words that mean
the same thing
all right so we're transitioning out of
fashion and we're going to talk about
babies of all things
so what do you put on the baby
you know like kind of when they haven't
learned to use the the toilet or the
bathroom yet
what is the thing that you put on them
so in the uk
we would call this a nappy a nappy it's
like a really cute word in the
in the us we call it a diaper which i
think doesn't sound as much like a baby
word
yeah it's so strange because again
they're very different words aren't they
there's like
nothing similar about them at all i
don't know where
it comes from but to kind of make it a
bit cuter would you call it a diety
we would yeah yeah if you're talking
with a kid maybe you might say
daipy yeah obviously
because of media and probably friends
again as well
we would know what you're talking about
if you said diaper in the uk would you
know in america
um if someone said i'm looking for some
nappies do you think people would
understand i
don't think i might think of like a
napkin or something because she's down
to her last nap
welcome to my world so i'll take take
taking them look i have another kid on
the way
do you know how much diapers cost yes
so the next one is i think it's another
one that it's
much cuter in british english but we
would say a pacifier that you
can give a baby to suck on when they're
maybe crying and this comes from
the word there's actually a verb to
pacify which means to like make peaceful
so i guess it's kind of it makes sense
it does so what would you say in the uk
it does make sense it's just sounds a
bit technical
it doesn't yeah yeah um so this word in
the uk is a dummy
a dummy now dummy we would think a dummy
is like someone who's not very smart
you might use that as like an insult
like you dummy yeah
yeah i've heard that so that's where it
can be a bit dangerous yeah i guess
but um i i don't know why it's called
a dummy i guess the insult dummy comes
from maybe
puppets as well because is it kind of
related to that
it's like a crash test dummy right like
that they use in
those car commercials to show how safe
the car is yeah
we i actually thought more maybe that it
comes from like
you know if you're dumb is another word
to say that you're mute that you you
can't speak
so it kind of like makes the baby dumb
like in the the
sense that they can't speak that makes
sense shuts them up
so we could also call it like a passy if
you want to make it a little bit cuter
yeah i remember hearing my sister or
did you hear the other word for it pinky
no i haven't heard that one stinky so
yeah that's the
other one you could use okay so
so the last one that we have for you
here is another thing for a baby a crib
that they would sleep in so we don't
call this a crib but i think
maybe it has become more of a term in
britain as well but we would call it a
cot
a cot okay a card for me is like a
it's a bed that you sleep in maybe when
you're camping okay
that's interesting yeah i i haven't
heard it
in that term but it's definitely where a
baby would sleep
if you go camping or something would you
sleep in a sleeping bag
yeah that's the same word okay that's
good tonight
all right so we actually have a few more
words
that are all about automobiles all about
cars
uh over on our instagram so if you want
to learn
more of this vocabulary that is a great
place to continue
the conversation and while you're there
be sure to follow us because
we also give you daily lessons tips
inspiration and so much more so we look
forward to seeing you over there
our next word is fancy now you might
have heard
in american english the term i have a
crush on someone
well in british english we would say i
fancy someone
we can also use it to describe a desire
for example i might say i fancy a cup of
tea
or i fancy some chocolate